Q 1 

Spring MVC Architecture 
It is a ModelView Controller Architecture.
The model has all the data related to the application.
The view is the representation of the processed data to be given in a specific format like XML or JSON.
The controller implements all the Business logic of the application.

Working :
The dispatcher servlet gets the data from the client and does the mapping from the input file,
then forward the data to the controller.
The controller implements the business logic and then returns an object of Model and to View.
The Servlet again displays or gives the response out.


Q 2 

The HTTP protocol is a protocol or set of rules and guidelines for distributed, collaborative, hypermedia information systems that allow users to communicate data on the World Wide Web.
HTTP requests are of different types :
GET requests a specific resource in its entirety
POST adds content, messages, or data to a new page under an existing web resource
PUT directly modifies an existing web resource or creates a new URI if need be
DELETE gets rid of a specified resource

these are the basics, used for the CRUD operations between client and server.
both the request and the response also contain some additional data or information for the other
side.

Q 3 

Web Application is usually for an End user while,
Web services can be for the end user or another web application.
A web application can access the WebService to get some data or to perform some task,
whereas WebService can not access the web application to get some data.
Web service can be used by different kinds of applications, but not the case with a web application.
Web application generates web page whereas web service generates raw data.

Q 4 

HTTP response status codes indicate whether a specific HTTP request has been completed.
Responses are grouped into five classes:
Informational responses (100–199)
Successful responses (200–299)
Redirection messages (300–399)
Client error responses (400–499)
Server error responses (500–599)
